Brian Beatty: Welcome everyone. This is a week, 7 of I tech 8, 30, and we were just starting to talk about the assignment, and that whole process of turning that in draft getting feedback, and then turn into a final version. I have extended the
Brian Beatty: that activity, so that if you have need a couple of extra hours. You can still turn something in. You can do it tonight. You can probably do it most of the day tomorrow, but it will cut off tomorrow at some point.
Brian Beatty: honor before add, or before 1159 Pm. And so you won't have the opportunity to turn things in after that. Now, of course, if you didn't turn in a draft paper, you have to let me know by email, and you can just send it to me, probably as we will do that or or whatever. But then it's late, and it might be treated as a late paper.
Brian Beatty: But the question was around, you know around. If you're doing a a a recording of your presentation, and you put, you know, the only place to put it right now is into the assignment tool, and you typically, you put it as a comment. You can attach a file. You can add a link to it, etc. But there's really no other place to put that unless you put it, you could link it from your paper as well. But who sees that?
Brian Beatty: I mean, I see it. I see all of the stuff. You obviously see it, but and only then the Peer Review people would see your recording so they could give you feedback. But I am not actually requiring them to give you feedback on the presentation as well.
Brian Beatty: That has that has not been part of the period. The peer feedback is primarily on whatever you've written. whatever form that takes.
Brian Beatty: So i'm trying to think of another way to do this, so that everybody could have a chance to see those.
Brian Beatty: and then, like I did before before canvas is, we put them into a discussion form, and i'd say, okay, you know, you need to give everybody at least a little bit of feedback on the recordings.
Brian Beatty: That takes a lot more time. But.
Brian Beatty: Dalton, something to
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): comments on that. Yeah, I have. I have a quick question. I maybe I'm. I'm confused with this
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): the presentation that we did last week, or if we were in the live class, it is that the same thing as the demo video or those separate things?
Brian Beatty: It's the to tame 8 to 10 min presentation. And really so that presentation really is is the ideas that you're you're demoing the technology and the inst instructional application of it.
Brian Beatty: I'm just i'm just bringing it there, because I don't think I actually got to like, actually demo a product. But I I I I I did, since in my paper.
Brian Beatty: right? Yeah. And so yeah, make sure that this is this is an important point. It's important that you're explaining that the technology in the context of some instructional situation it doesn't mean you can't
Brian Beatty: talk about the technology as a technology. But then make sure you talk about also how it applies to a setting where people are trying to learn something right. It could be a school setting, a training classroom and online, you know, informal learning, environment, whatever happens to people.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: all right.
Brian Beatty: So
Brian Beatty: what? So one of the things I was thinking of is that what we could do is I could put a discussion forum up for that week where that would just basically be a container for recordings.
Brian Beatty: And so, if you were going to do a recorded session, you know, rather than doing a live presentation, you
Brian Beatty: which means you would be on the zoom recording. You could put it into that Forum, and then then you could collect feedback from other people. The expectation would be then that all of us would be looking at those recordings, and you know, watching them for for 10 min, and providing a little bit of feedback to to whoever it was.
Brian Beatty: so, the the whole point of having the discussion Forum would be so that people could review it. Adam.
Adam Hill: I like
Adam Hill: what I like about that or something, because I I do really appreciate the like high flex model of the class. And the program is that like, somehow we're getting a repository and learning about all of the other products, because, like I only get 2 we get exposed to, and the ones that get presented in class and like
Adam Hill: it was even cool, like I even learned about products just through the paper example our papers you shared. And so, if there was some way for us to have some way of
Adam Hill: having that repository would be great, one of which could be the presentations. Yeah.
Brian Beatty: yeah. right
Brian Beatty: presentation. Yeah. And what you know what we could also do is is if we did. This is, say, post your presentation here.
Brian Beatty: and but I also allow it for people who wanted to post their paper there. I mean no one. I don't think it would be a problem if you put the paper there, but the formal paper I would want to capture in the in the tool and the pure feedback i'd cap I want to capture in the assignment tool also, because then it's much more easier for me to administrate that.
Brian Beatty: But the informal sharing could happen in that discussion form, and it wouldn't be a requirement for you to post your paper there. But if you wanted feedback from other people.
Brian Beatty: you know, then maybe that would be the place to do that, or especially if you miss the Peer feedback
Brian Beatty: session you know the draft. If you draft a few days late, you won't, get into peer-review the way. This the assignment tool is set up now.
Brian Beatty: so
Adam Hill: any other thoughts on me. I also really do like I. I really like the Peer review tool that canvas has that's like a
Adam Hill: That's also pretty cool
Adam Hill: cool technology in and of itself.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, they they do a good job with that. I mean, I I was. I'm very happy with that overall.
Adam Hill: We've once I figured out how to do it. Last year, when I was doing it I was keeping them anonymous reviews.
Brian Beatty: and
Brian Beatty: I can see why you might do that in some classes. But it it became. It seemed to be more trouble than it was worth. because if someone had trouble accessing a file, they didn't know who to talk to. They didn't know who to contact. I didn't know who to con Well, they want to know on the account, only I would have known, and I didn't really know right away that they didn't know.
Brian Beatty: So, anyway.
Adam Hill: are you able to see, as the instructor what other like what my peers said about my paper for feedback. If that makes sense, I can see I can see everything. Okay, cool. Yeah.
Brian Beatty: yeah, I don't. There's I don't know if there is, I don't know if there's any way for you sending messages to other people. Do you guys have a chance to? I don't even know how that works as a student. Can you send a message to another student in the class through the canvas tool.
Brian Beatty: like? If you go to the inbox, Can you send things out that way? Do you have that feature?
Adam Hill: I guess I need to learn more about this as a student.
Brian Beatty: maybe I should go to the class they offer here.
Brian Beatty: and it's not a couple of hours of time. Who knows? Well, if if yeah, so, anyway, for those of you who use canvas, or
Brian Beatty: we know it better than I do. If you've got suggested, let me know.
Brian Beatty: So I think what we'll do. What i'll do is
Brian Beatty: set that discussion form up. I just don't want it to be too complicated. At least i'm going to see i'm going to play with that a little bit to see how it works. We have. I have, like 3 or 4 weeks to do that. Our next our next assignment. I think our next draft papers do on April twelfth, which is a month away. Essentially.
Adam Hill: we have a a week break next week, and then we have 2 more live sessions after this one where we're talking about different content before the next draft is due.
Brian Beatty: So maybe we can just try that and see how it works.
Brian Beatty: Rachel. What do you think about that? I mean you, you you you've been doing. You did a recorded presentation last time. Do you think it'd be helpful to have a place to put that so other people could see it
Brian Beatty: more visibly.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: Yeah, I think. Yeah, I think that should be. I'm: Good.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: So that's what we' in so and so then the the expectation is that we're giving feedback to everybody, which I i'm happy with, i'm. Okay, with that, you're doing that in the live session, anyway, for those of you who are part of the live session. And so this kind of helps.
Brian Beatty: you know, bring other people into that feedback session, because the people who are doing it asynchronously right now, don't have to give the presentation feedback to anybody, and I think that's probably an important part of just
Brian Beatty: not only the class, but also your professional network here.
Brian Beatty: Get to know each other a little bit more. All right.
Brian Beatty: Okay? Well, tonight we are moving forward tonight. We are going to be looking at.
Brian Beatty: We're in session 7. So here we are. We're we're shifting gears. Now, from just presenting information or accessing information or generating information, the whole idea of content to. Now we're talking about engagement for the next 3 weeks, and you know, obviously you could do a whole course and a half on just engagement
Brian Beatty: with with one any one of these technologies, really. And so what this is more of a survey, though. So we're going to look at several different types of emerging technology areas and talk about how the use of those tools can help us improve the engagement of our of our learners, really, but also of the faculty of the teachers.
Brian Beatty: You, Don't, get engaged students, Usually, if you don't have an engaged faculty or teacher, or facilitator, or tutor, whatever term you want to use. And so I think it's important that the technologies we choose, and the activities we choose to do with them are also engaging for the faculty member.
Brian Beatty: So the faculty member, the teacher, let's just i'll use that word teacher should also be engaged, and that's you know there's motivational components to that. But there's also a fact that the technology has to be usable, accessible.
Brian Beatty: practical, and that and the tech the teacher has to have the skills, just like the students, have to have some skills. To use these technology as well.
Brian Beatty: Access to resources is one thing. Access to technology is one thing, but access just access doesn't. Get you the point of being able to work well with it, either as a as a teacher or a learner.
Brian Beatty: So. anyway. So for this week
Brian Beatty: there were a couple of things I had asked you to look at, and I know many of you were probably finished working on your papers and things like that. So if you hadn't got to this, the nice thing is, these are all really simple to look at. They're all I think they're all very straightforward. They're really there to help you kind of pick something to start exploring around with it.
Brian Beatty: And so we we can go through. We can go through the we. We can kind of tour through them and see what you found. If if you found something that was interesting. But before we do that
Brian Beatty: I think it'd be useful to hear from anyone who has had experience with these kinds of technologies. And we're gonna we're talking really about
Brian Beatty: essentially a augmented reality. virtual reality.
Brian Beatty: You know anything immersive reality tools. We, you know, one of the videos there talks about AR
Brian Beatty: VR, Mr. And Xr. Do you remember what Mr. Was
mixed? Reality? Right?
Brian Beatty: So it's not necessarily. It's more of the hybrid, but not necessarily like an AR makes it so maybe a different mix where you actually are doing things in real reality and things in real virtual reality, and somehow combining them not with an AR kind of lens necessarily so mixed reality.
Brian Beatty: And there's this continuum that you can think about it from mostly real to mostly virtual.
Brian Beatty: and along those lines. So Xr is the the overall term. That's that's often used for this.
Brian Beatty: Just the X is the placeholder for whatever letter you might want to use.
Brian Beatty: So if any of you use this as a as a
Brian Beatty: as a learner to try to actually learn something more, well, maybe let's start with the first question: Have you played around with these technology or use them like for other reasons, like entertainment gaming those kinds of things?
Brian Beatty: Yes, Can you indicate? Yes, with a hand raise or a verbal or a chat. Yes.
Brian Beatty: sad. Yeah. okay.
Brian Beatty: record. Adams and No.
Brian Beatty: but wants to. I mean, I do, too. I have the last 3 years I have had to talk myself out of vine buying, you know, a nice VR of your to a couple of Vrs sets for home. I haven't bought one yet. I don't know if I will. I probably will, but I know it's gonna take my time, so that's not very many of us.
Brian Beatty: That's not pretty much. Dalton.
Brian Beatty: Have you used this stuff as a, you know, for for your own, basically your own personal use?
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Yeah, I I I got one from a consulting gig because I was. You know they they needed to help create that product as a structural designer, I guess, and so they get. They gave me one which is really great for free.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): so I use it to test their product and give them feedback on how to prove it how to, you know. Improve the interface things like that, and and then they will get back. No, I still have it.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): But I've also tried to partner with another organization that I it's a very small startup.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): just you know. A handful of folks usually like one or 2,
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and they were trying to do it. They're They're not doing a study in Stanford. So the the CEO is a master's
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): student at Stanford Graduate School of Education. He is also partnering with a prince of investigator there to have.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you know, students at the Grad school create VR worlds and create lesson plans using
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): there
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): world building feature. I guess. So they just kind of sort of choose the artifacts during the world.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and we wanted to test that out with middle school students. But one problem that we ran into is that our filter, our web web filter blocks, Facebook at at our campus.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and whoever
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and so we tested it. I, you know I spent hours and hours with the tech team
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): whitelisting all these different sites right, Meta Facebook whatever, and it was a huge hassle.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): And so what I think what are the articles that we that that we were reading
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): had a link to about? Why, schools are slow to adopt this, and it's because of things like this
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): is that it the cost People don't know how to use it. People don't know how to support it with the infrastructure, and it's it's been really nightmare, and eventually we have to drop it. So we couldn't actually pull it off.
Brian Beatty: So so okay, so so that so some of you have used it basically for play, if any of you used it to actually try to learn something
Brian Beatty: like intentional learning.
Brian Beatty: What do you think about that?
Brian Beatty: Hi, Amanda? And hello, Everett, thanks for joining us. We're talking about you, using kind of like VR. Or augmented reality, some sort of immersive reality
Brian Beatty: as a play play thing first, and a few people have that experience. And now the question is, have you actually tried to use it to learn anything important? It's so Dalton is going to be a space station person some day, and it has to learn how to navigate through the space station. So you were trying to actually learn something. What was your intentional learning?
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Well, I've seen maps and videos, but I I never really understood exactly how the position is oriented
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and the the videos. You know it's hard to kind of grasp it. So I was like, okay, let me download it's free on acules. Downloaded it.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you know. Got a sense of it. But I got really made your emotion Sickness, because you're sort of
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): are grabbing things and flying in 0. G:
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): That's pretty rough, and that that's something that one of the startups have told me is that the motion sickness factor is a big one that is often ignored or or sort of bypass, because they don't want to let that get in the way of adoption.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): And so yeah, and I wonder if there, if people have
Brian Beatty: gotten good design ideas, and how you can reduce that they probably have or are working on that, too, because it's a real problem.
Brian Beatty: Recall You say you've used the map, map the app monly. What does that one do?
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: Oh, that one is to like, learn languages.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: It takes you like the experience of going to the country if you want to learn it that Italian you go to Italy.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: It is pretty good. It is uncomfortable because it's also the so at some point it it gets really
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: not comfortable.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: But I really like how you are exposed to real life situations. So you
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: can actually practice what you're learning.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: I don't think this can be something that you learn, only using the app. If you're taking a class or you're like trying to learn by yourself, and you learn the grammar.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: and then you use the app to practice. I think this is a great tool
Brian Beatty: it. And did you use it for? Do you? Do you still use it for that.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: When I started studying Italian I I got this one to start practicing. Then I kind of forgot
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: about it. I've been trying to use it again.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: And i'm like, Wow! Is now that I have some more practice like in classes, I can use it with the app
Brian Beatty: cool. Okay.
Brian Beatty: all right. So so a little bit, maybe not very many, though right. And and how about anyone who who have have any of you use this actually in your teaching or training practice or your instructional design. Practice
Brian Beatty: this immersive reality stuff
Brian Beatty: it's been. It's been around for literally
Brian Beatty: more than 2 decades.
Brian Beatty: I had colleagues doing a augmented reality projects for the Us. Coast Guard back around the year 2,000,
Brian Beatty: you know where they were creating heads up to, you know, basically glasses that would have a have a display of. So when the Coast Guard employee or the the members would look out over the the port, they could see a ship, and they could see different data layers.
Brian Beatty: Where was it flagged? What was the tonnage? Well, where is it going? Where did it come from? What's the crew like all those kinds of things. And that was back. That was like 23 years ago.
Brian Beatty: So the the technology has been around for a very long time. and yet
Brian Beatty: we have one person who's used the NASA stuff, the AR in class.
Brian Beatty: another person whose company is interested in it. We probably Hasn't done or may not have done it. I mean, the only the only way I've used it is just basically talking about it as a thing in classes, but never actually using it
Brian Beatty: in class, in part, because I mean, if we were in person we would be doing this. Session would be in the library because they have. They have a set of of headsets, and we could run through some some of their sample things that we could do, or even get something that we would use, but we don't have that accessible. It's really difficult to do here.
Brian Beatty: so not so much. Let me let me share this different screen here, real quickly. This is a picture
Brian Beatty: of the gardener hype cycle, like a technology hype cycle for higher education. This is 2,021, and I think the one for 2,022
Brian Beatty: looks very similar. But what I want to point out here is that this idea of immersive technology and education. That's really what we're talking about. The way they see this is that still is. Still, it's still in the in the the high heights hype area. In other words, there's a lot of talk about it.
Brian Beatty: but and there's a lot of hopes for it. or a lot of promise for it, but not a lot of realization Yet it still has. You have to kind of dive down into this trough of to spare.
Brian Beatty: Okay, disillusionment, they call it. I call it the spare. You know where where it's like. You know what? Too hard we're not. We're just not going to do this, but but eventually these technologies that do make it, and most of the ones that are on here. We'll make it through here eventually. Not all of them, but many of them.
Brian Beatty: We'll go through this, and then we'll get out to this area where they call it the plateau productivity, where it actually becomes more usable in class. There's more content available it. The headsets are probably easier to use. The technology is is more available for us. Or maybe the technology need gets lower because they're become more efficient. But if you look@thelittleblack.here, if you see that
Brian Beatty: black dot that tells us that they're their their experts are thinking this is 5 to 10 years away, yet
Brian Beatty: from being like out of the emerging space. And so that puts us out to 2,026 to 2,030.
Brian Beatty: Some of you may not be teaching any more. If you're teaching now you may be on to administrative roles, or doing something else.
Brian Beatty: So it's it's gonna it. That's this is why I You know this is such an emerging technology, even though it's been around
Brian Beatty: in some form for over 20 years. It's a long. It's been a long time.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, Adam. Actually, we could do that, and we could either. We could either line that up with a class meeting. The question is, can we do a field trip to the library? We could certainly do that, but I think we can also do it a different time. The live there's a librarian.
Brian Beatty: A technology support person is a library who basically runs that whole lab. It's a maker space. It's a. It's a you know, a a, a, a a VR space. It does a lot of different things. It's a digital media production space, and they would love to host us. And so, if there's interest in that, we could certainly set that up
Brian Beatty: either either in it evening probably would be the best, and so i'd have to find out when they're really available in the evenings. But i'd love to do that, Dalton.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): So did you mean that the school has V. Our headsets that we can that we can use.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Yeah, they take like a book.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): What's that? And we just check check them out, or does it?
Brian Beatty: Probably not, but you can use them in their lab.
Brian Beatty: and so they have a couple of. They have a couple of stations that we could use, and I don't know if it's 3 at a time, or something like that. 2 or 3 different stations, but it'd be something we could do so. If you're interested in that. Let me know, and we will. We'll start a communication to see what we can plan.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Adam Hill: what would be the best? How should we indicate interests like email you.
Brian Beatty: You can message me through through canvas. Yeah, just some time this week, and we'll set it up for S. Probably probably mid mid mid to late April is probably when we would do it. I don't know, because it's we've got spring break coming up. And
Brian Beatty: yeah, well, yeah, sometime in April. That's what we would shoot for.
Adam Hill: Cool.
Brian Beatty: Okay, and I know there's some other people who might be interested in as well, and it actually it'd be a to be a reason to, you know. Meet people in person in the class at least some of the people imagine that. Yeah, there it is. Dawn's got a link right there.
Brian Beatty: There's probably more information there than I'm aware of, but I do know the people who run it so hopefully we can get that going? All right. Well.
Brian Beatty: so
Brian Beatty: I think so. So it's it's emerging. It's emerging for us. It's emerging for all of us, it seems. And so for these different, the different resources I asked you to look at. Did you find any of these interesting worthy of note?
Brian Beatty: This one talks about the potential. You know the state of Xr. You know, in
Brian Beatty: education and training.
Brian Beatty: whatever that is. windows popping up.
Brian Beatty: You know the potential, the potential, the potential. You know. I think that there's a
Brian Beatty: there's a lot more. Well, there's a lot of VR. That's being used in in the in like
Brian Beatty: industry now.
Brian Beatty: especially in i'm aware of it in the production field, but also repair fields where people are putting on VR goggles and manipulating obvious in the design fields, you know, for designing and actually testing things out in in design a lot more than obviously a lot more than it used to be, because it didn't used to be anything.
Brian Beatty: but it's becoming something that it. It's becoming a skill set that a lot of a lot of technical fields are relying on.
Adam Hill: I think so. I liked.
Adam Hill: So my company helps. One thing that we hope schools do is if they run like a nursing program
Adam Hill: for some sort of other clinical program online, we will support them with finding placement sites for students, so like you might be enrolled at Usc's nursing program. But you live in Montana, and it's really hard for us to do that. We'll help with that.
Adam Hill: But of course, the clinical experience that, like a a nurse in Montana, has but will
Adam Hill: in royal Montana will be different than something like of an urban area. And then they get they they? Their training is perhaps gonna be different. What VR. Then allows you to do is potentially get exposed to more rare medical scenarios, and also have, like more tries at
Adam Hill: at certain scenarios in a lower stakes environment rather than like, you know, treating a patient that's
Adam Hill: severely ill, and another context, so like, I think, is really interesting for things like medical education and the ways that it can help like potentially train a stronger medical workforce.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, whenever we have problems with training enough people
Brian Beatty: because of location, you know, to the extent we can put some of that training experience into a simulated environment. You know, virtual reality is a great basically. We are. It's all simulated right. It's not real. It's all simulated, but a simulated environment like that. The more likely we are to start meeting some of that need. Nursing is a classic one where there's just not enough practical experience available to train nurses to
Brian Beatty: the way we the way we always have, train them for us to be getting enough out of the basically through the pipeline for lack of a better term. And so some of that can be done with. We are. That's great. They're using virtual reality machines for training
Brian Beatty: truck drivers. You can learn how to. You can. You know we've been using simulations, sort of like virtual reality simulations
Brian Beatty: to for learning how to airline plans, to to to fly airline airplanes. So, and you don't learn everything that way. But you can get a lot of learning that way in the simulators. We've been using simulators in like my backgrounds in the Navy. But even when I was in the Navy act duty a long, long time ago.
Brian Beatty: 25 years ago.
Brian Beatty: simulators for learning how to essentially drive a submarine through, make holes in the in the ocean with the summary, and moving it up and down those kinds of things. Or, you know, basically practice fighting wars in in these computerized spaces. This is this is like 30 years ago.
Brian Beatty: So the technology was pretty limited back then, but it was still things you could do that were a lot better than trying to do everything in practice, because you couldn't do that stuff in practice. You can't. You can't like.
Brian Beatty: you know.
Brian Beatty: Do that operational stuff in real life
Brian Beatty: just because it wasn't possible. Dalton?
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): A few years ago we hosted Jeremy Corbyn, who is a Stanford. VR. One of the main guys there.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and he had this really great story about how you know the way that he framed is that VR. Is good for replicating experiences that we can't just do safely right. And I think our we just talked about that, too, like disaster scenarios, you know, chemistry experiments exploding that kind of thing. And he has this, he he! He! This really just seems to her about a an organization abroad.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): reached out to the Nfl. And said, hey, we want to give our customers
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): who are living abroad who can not go to the games right, but they are like ultra wealthy. They want to get a court side or a fieldside experience.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): And so Jeremy started helping them out with that kind of thing. It was like, You know, that this is cool. Everything, but you know what else would be cool would be to have VR.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Being used in your company to train things like sexual harassment or other. You know compliency things in a way that is actually teaches more about empathy. So he showed this one scenario. There's more stuff in this lecture here. This is the least one he gave last year. I'll drop it in the chat
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and about using VR. To actually train for empathy. So, like you, you start in a scenario. You look at the wall. There's a mirror there, and you are maybe somebody on a wheelchair all of a sudden.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and so like sort of inviting other personas can be powerful in VR. I thought that was that was pretty unique.
Brian Beatty: There was an experience in a second life. This was about a decade, or go, or more, when second life was a thing. it was our it was our, you know our 2 dimensional VR space we could walk around in.
Brian Beatty: and
Brian Beatty: they it was by one. I think it was Uc. Davis, and essentially they. You would walk into a room
Brian Beatty: and you would get us. You get a sense of of just a little bit of what it might be like to have a psychotic episode like a like a a paranoid schizophrenia, where you might hear voices.
Brian Beatty: And so, before going into this room, you'd have to actually kind of
Brian Beatty: check a box for just a disclaimer, saying, hey, look! You know
Brian Beatty: you may be disturbed by this experience, and you go into this room and and you the way they did. The audio was really interesting. Is you just kind of hear these voices, and it wasn't, you know.
Brian Beatty: probably very little month, little bit like reality. But for most of us who never had that experience.
Brian Beatty: it was pretty eye opening, or, you know.
Brian Beatty: kind of thinking about this. What this would be. This would be very disturbing if this was actually going on.
Brian Beatty: This is how I was living my life to help generate some empathy, but also just a little bit of understanding what it might be like, or just the complexity of that.
Brian Beatty: The channel is that that might bring about that, and that that was just with
Brian Beatty: simple two-dimensional space.
Brian Beatty: I don't think it's still active, because most of the what is that kind of second life space has gone away.
Brian Beatty: This is a little picture i'm. Showing here Asu Arizona State University has partnered with dreamscape dreamscape is a company that does these
Brian Beatty: immersive reality experiences really for entertainment.
Brian Beatty: and I think they have them. They have them in a couple of metro areas. I'm not sure if there's anyone in the Northern California area, but there's
Brian Beatty: probably la. But anyway, they built a biology lab
Brian Beatty: experience with Asu, and it's a it's a multi-level. It's like 2 or 3 levels. I'm not sure if they have a space here. But this is this is like being inside. So you you get into this VR world, and you're in this pot, and you're moving around, and you're going into an ecosystem, and you're trying to. You get to learn more about the biology of an ecosystem. Essentially.
Brian Beatty: And you could read through this if you want.
Brian Beatty: This is one of the experiences we're actually sitting down. We have another experience where you're actually walking around on these different levels, and in a a a room they built out, and it doesn't show it in here.
Brian Beatty: and it's really pretty powerful, because you you are walking around and you have other people, and so you can interact with the other people in space as well. I did that couple of summers ago. It's just this is a demonstration to walk through it about a 15 min adventure. But this is a project that was probably cost 20 or $30,000 and 30 20 or 70,000,
Brian Beatty: several 1 million dollars to build out and to program and it. And it was serving essentially one course
Brian Beatty: kind of as a demonstration project and to support research around using these kinds of things in learning.
Brian Beatty: and while it was impressive we were. I was there with a group of about 30 people. We were all very impressed with it, but also thinking.
Brian Beatty: well, you know, we don't have resources like this, and you know it's it's very bound in space. But but this is just limitations. It's hard not to focus on the limitations.
Brian Beatty: you know, and what they were trying to do is to get this to think beyond just the limitations.
Brian Beatty: because at some point, if this does get to the plateau of productivity.
Brian Beatty: then it has to be, it has to be cheaper. It has to be less difficult to build. It has to be more more customizable, and so that so that we can actually use it, especially if we want to get beyond, You know, the the place of like like Asu, that has incredible internal resources
Brian Beatty: because of their 200,000 students or so who go to school there. So it's just another example of
Brian Beatty: what? Where kind of where? This is an education. In some places there are lots of other VR labs. A lot of major universities have them. We have some faculty on our campus. They're doing VR. Things in Kinesiology, for one thing, with the study of motion and AR kinds of things.
Brian Beatty: Here's another example. This is what I gave you. This is a link from the accenture, you know, big consulting company primarily for businesses. But these are the different ways that they're trying to sell.
Brian Beatty: Xr solutions, immersive reality, solutions, you know, across an entire, an entire. You know business. Essentially.
Brian Beatty: you know the workers training training applications, building a space in meteor.
Brian Beatty: the merchandising, you know, the the the immersive, I mean the or the like. The 360 degree objects you might see. One of the biggest applications of those is, is sales
Brian Beatty: right where you can take a look at this and this merchandise and spin it around. You can take a look at it. You can kind of maybe explode it apart. Dive into it
Brian Beatty: if you go shopping for. I don't know you're gonna do home remodeling or something. Are you gonna, you know, Change the color of your paint
Brian Beatty: or change your kitchen? You can take a picture of your own space, and then you can overlay. You know the new stuff on it, and that look how fantastic it would be, and you can try out different looks and feels. Have you bought online glasses online for those of you who wear glasses?
Brian Beatty: You can try the glasses on your face. You put your you put your face in your face in there. You pick a pair of glasses, and it'll put it right on your face, and you can move it around. See how you like it.
Brian Beatty: All that kind of stuff. So you know, so businesses are certainly picking up on this a lot more than most schools are.
Brian Beatty: Research universities have labs doing this
Brian Beatty: schools. Not so much. Some do. but not so much.
Brian Beatty: This was another link I had there. This is the military applications. This is once again. This is this is a little old right? But this is what they were doing. Well, actually, this is from 2,022. So it's not that all
Brian Beatty: this is just an overview of some of the things that that they're doing.
Brian Beatty: Why do they do such cool things.
Brian Beatty: Well. a couple of reasons. They do a lot of dangerous stuff.
Brian Beatty: And so, having a simulated environment to practice, that is pretty important. They also have pretty deep pockets. They are the our pockets. Essentially they get a lot. They have a lot of budget to do a lot of these things.
Brian Beatty: and they work with a lot of universities because they can pay for their time.
Brian Beatty: They can pay for research grants and those kinds of things.
Brian Beatty: So I
Brian Beatty: any comments about any of these?
Adam Hill: Oh, the the the military one made me think I didn't. Actually, I should have done the research on this, if, like the Department of LED, has any
Adam Hill: sort of white paper, or any
Adam Hill: anything that's trying to research or set aside funding for
Adam Hill: VR. Within education, or if it's, or as if, as you said, it's just too hyped. And at the point where they just aren't doing that yet.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, I don't know if there's a specific program in the department of that that oversees this I'm. I'm sure that the National Science Foundation has got money going out to people who are working on projects in this area. I I know one of the fact. There's a faculty over at University of North Carolina.
Brian Beatty: Stephen King, I think, is his name, not not the not the famous Steven King, the less famous Stephen King, and he has. He teaches a course
Brian Beatty: in in, I think, in metaverse, but basically, in in virtual reality. And he he does this as an on my course, and he senses. He sends out to every student a headset.
Brian Beatty: you know. So they use it during the class, and then they send it back back to him. And he does research on this, and he he basically teaches in the program a lot like ours, but he's got a he's got a research unit to actually do the work he's got Grant funding
Brian Beatty: to support that. So I I know there's money out there. I'm not sure if the Department of add has that. But you could do it easy to search for that. Yeah.
Adam Hill: it. There was a reading on him, right?
Brian Beatty: Yeah, there may have been. Yeah.
Adam Hill: Yeah, I thought that was cool. I we kind of like blogged about his. Yeah, that I I think it was that one, that one yeah, actually, here it is. Yeah. And
Adam Hill: just seeing him go through like even the vetting process of like this is what
Adam Hill: these different products offer, and then running his class, and what that was like. And I think this started at the onset of the pandemic, too, which is just a really interesting
Adam Hill: Yeah, which is a really interesting time for him to be doing this. So I I I thought this was really interesting.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, I I I met him. We were both talking at a conference, a technology conference in Las Vegas. It must have been in
Brian Beatty: either the fall of 2020, or or more likely, the spring of 21, and they just had us each come up for like 10 min to talk about our stuff. I was talking about the hybrid, flexible teaching, and he was talking about teaching a virtual space.
Brian Beatty: And so, anyway.
Brian Beatty: yeah, lot of lot of lot of good stuff that they're doing there, but they have. They have resources
Brian Beatty: to do it, and I don't know if this is filtering out into the schools in North Carolina at all, or if that's part of their agenda, I i'm not quite sure on that.
Brian Beatty: A lot of times when Department of education is providing money to universities. Do this kind of work. They want to improve often the education at the university, but they're also very interested, especially in the world of colleges of education to kind of have that filter down then into the K 12 space.
Brian Beatty: so that what we're doing is not just, you know, for you know, for those. you know, for those in the universities, but also for those in in the schools themselves. Yeah.
Brian Beatty: okay.
Brian Beatty: yeah, there it is. Thank you for reminding me.
Brian Beatty: I also had a link in here. This is this is the University of Michigan.
Brian Beatty: and all the different projects that they have been doing around this, their their center for academic innovation.
Brian Beatty: And so there they've got a couple of 22 products they talked about already.
Brian Beatty: and then you can take a look and explore it. Anybody look at any of these.
Brian Beatty: So this is a you know mythology.
Brian Beatty: I didn't show you. This guy had his video. I asked you to watch. This is the first that's the person Who was.
Brian Beatty: It was talking about it, teaching and in in virtual reality, space.
Brian Beatty: construction, education. So we're talking still. College level stuff for the most part immersive audio design. This is really interesting.
Brian Beatty: using 3, you know, 3D spaces for.
Brian Beatty: or virtual reality for audio. you know sound design in a in space.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Is there a similar list? For as you projects going on related to VR: yeah, Not much.
Brian Beatty: The what? Yeah. no.
Brian Beatty: However, actually that my the contact of the library, he might know more about it.
Brian Beatty: I know that the Kinesiology Department had some grant money to do projects in this area. and I think there may be some things going on in the more of the computer science area where they would be programming in virtual reality and kind of creating those spaces.
Brian Beatty: and that that if they're creating the spaces, there also might be some work going on in the creative arts area in our
Brian Beatty: cinema, basically a a becca or cinema
Brian Beatty: with digital digital stuff.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Yeah, I see Joshua Mcveigh Schultz Does that ring a bell?
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): You want to some kind of grant?
Brian Beatty: And yeah, what? What's Department? Does it say?
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Design, professor or job design? So that would be the design and industry.
Brian Beatty: the Dai group. They are the like, the product designers.
Brian Beatty: Yeah.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): And that one's more about online meetings.
Brian Beatty: How exciting
Brian Beatty: there's a there's a really interesting VR tool
Brian Beatty: that will teach people. We teach people how to do it. I think it's called virtual speech, or something like that training for
Brian Beatty: training for professionals. They basically sell this application to businesses who have. They're like their executives or managers who have to do speeches, especially public speeches, and they want to put them in an environment. So they're They're more used to the kind of distractions that might happen, and they get a chance to practice and get some feedback as well as data about
Brian Beatty: other speeches going. How many filler words are using? What's your speech rate?
Brian Beatty: Other kinds of things that might be of interest to someone who is doing a public public speaking situation. One of one of the students in this program talked to them about 2 years ago, because she was teaching speech
Brian Beatty: classes at the Community College, and she wanted to use it with her class. This is during the pandemic, so she got special permission to use their product, for I think it was for one class for one semester as a way of trying it out, and you know, pretty pretty powerful tool to give people the better more of an experience of
Brian Beatty: help, real public speaking when they're especially teach you learning in an online space
Brian Beatty: rather than you know. Rely on zoom presentations with her
Brian Beatty: a bit unreal.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: All right.
Brian Beatty: Then there was a couple of videos to watch any comments about the videos. If you Haven't had a chance to watch them. There's a couple of really good ones there. Yeah, You probably would be interested in the same
Brian Beatty: to you guys. It so talk to it tonight.
Brian Beatty: Well, I know how to make a talk. I'll get you to the talk and make you talk. I can't make you talking.
Brian Beatty: I encourage your you're talking to each other.
Brian Beatty: What we'll do is maybe give you a project to work on. So let's let's before we do that. Let's take a break, so we don't have to interrupt an activity with a break. Let's just take a 5 min break and we'll. We'll start back at
Brian Beatty: 7 51 Pacific time, and i'm gonna pause the recording. And that just someone remind me if I don't start the recording when we come back to start the recording again, and then we'll launch off into
Brian Beatty: a bit of an exploration in small groups right so 5 min. See you soon, All right.
Brian Beatty: so welcome back. So we're shifting gears here.
Brian Beatty: There's a a couple of things that you can do that in the agenda. There is this place called Jig Space. Anyone use the jig space
Brian Beatty: app.
Brian Beatty: We put it in the chat window. so I think we just turn the channel off it's linked in the
Brian Beatty: agenda as well.
Brian Beatty: So one of the things you could do in your You're gonna we're gonna work in breakouts for a few minutes is to take a look at this jig space app. Let me put this into the
Brian Beatty: into the breakout room now, so i'm opening up the breakout room. Now it's as well. It's They're posted in the first module, right as they always are. Let me put that link in the chat window as well, so you can take a look at this.
Brian Beatty: What I want you to do is explore what you could possibly do with VR. A. Are some sort of extensive, extensible reality. Xr.
Brian Beatty: You know, mixed reality, whatever it might be in your particular situation.
Brian Beatty: And the reason why
Brian Beatty: is because I don't think there's anybody who's working in any situation
Brian Beatty: where some of this wouldn't be useful
Brian Beatty: That doesn't mean just because it's it. It could be useful doesn't mean you would have to use it right. Obviously there's got to be a rationale for that. But I think you know, if you've done a little exploration on this, I think you can see that
Brian Beatty: there's a lot of this that could be very powerful to support learning a lot of the ways that we're trying to do it. It may not be right away.
Brian Beatty: But what what are the possibilities. Do you think that could actually work
Brian Beatty: for you in your in your place? In your context?
Brian Beatty: I mean, if you, if you're in a you know classroom context. You may already know, either in in my in the discipline I teach or in the at the level I teach. there's a lot of resources available. I just don't know how to use them. I have never used them.
Brian Beatty: or I don't have the resources to. So what would it take? Well, maybe it's just a resource limitation.
Brian Beatty: Maybe it's a time limitation. I gotta do some discovery and then find, you know. Then convince somebody that is worth, you know, supporting.
Brian Beatty: but you can also do it with simple apps like this. This is an augmented reality. App that you can use to. You can create objects in here, but you can also use their library of objects. This is a way of playing around with them.
Brian Beatty: You need a phone.
Brian Beatty: You need a I think you need a flat surface for it to kind of. Put something there, and you can explore these objects to think about how gone by
Brian Beatty: simple things like that there may be some other. There are lots of other AR apps. some that can throw spiders in different places and have them walk around, and you know. surprise people and things like that.
Brian Beatty: So in the group, though I want you to think about what you could do.
Brian Beatty: What would it take? What would be the rationale, Why would you? Why would you do this?
Brian Beatty: So? What do you think it would matter so? If you can come up with a
Brian Beatty: a an app. You know an application that you, you know, either for out everyone's place
Brian Beatty: or for you know, Pick a pick, a pick, a space oops. I'm going to be formatting this
Brian Beatty: while we're working on this.
Brian Beatty: Let's talk about that for a little bit, and let's do a little report back just for you that way. I'm I'm. I think i'm I'm missing too much to myself to talk to next. But let's get you guys talking to each other. Let's see how many people are we having here?
Brian Beatty: Let's see, where is my tour?
Brian Beatty: 7? So we will do. 1 2 3,
Brian Beatty: we'll do 3 groups, so it'll be 2 groups of 2, one group of 3, and we'll just do this randomly again, but 3 groups. That's probably good, and we'll come back together and do a little
Brian Beatty: debrief so
Brian Beatty: roughly. 20 min. If you can come up with an example, a link to something, you know, resource
Brian Beatty: that might be useful. You can talk about how this tool might be useful for somebody
Brian Beatty: that'd be very helpful. I'll check in with you in about 20 min, and see how all that's going. It will take. We can take a little bit more time if we need it. But if we don't need more time
Brian Beatty: we won't. Take more time. I'm gonna pause the recording and then set up the
Brian Beatty: Okay. So we're back on the record we've had. I don't know. 20 min, 25 min to sort of look through this lot of notes on there, and i'd like to hear from everybody. We'll go group by group. and so you can talk. You can obviously talk about what you've discussed as a group, but i'd like to have everyone have given everyone a chance to talk about their specific context.
Brian Beatty: So I think this can't apply to every one of us.
Brian Beatty: and you can. Maybe you can prove me wrong. But the first group back was Group 3. So let's start with group 3,
Sadia Shaheed: so i'll talk about the first part. So what could you do?
Sadia Shaheed: So we discussed like in case of language, learning, or like knowing their cultural heritage, or
Sadia Shaheed: attending a festival that you cannot call during that time. I think it will be something helpful to use. and I have posted a video link like
Sadia Shaheed: kind of like those kind of festivals
Sadia Shaheed: where it might not be possible for everyone to.
Sadia Shaheed: And
Brian Beatty: I was just rolling over it. That's the Youtube. It's great.
Sadia Shaheed: So yeah, and okay, so on, like
Sadia Shaheed: chasing the learners in the like real environment. without being uncomfortable.
Sadia Shaheed: like what they're basically, going to do
Sadia Shaheed: so. They they can practice like without being uncomfortable like, and also for kids. It's from my personal experience. I know someone who would not get into the bus without without Mom for a field trip, because he is scared. So these are. This could be another option to join the classmates.
Sadia Shaheed: to experience the like to have the field experience without being fearful of being there without.
Sadia Shaheed: So Linda, would you like to go for the next
Sadia Shaheed: one?
Linda Kim: Yeah, sure. Thank you.
Linda Kim: So I kind of mentioned this when Dr. Vita came into our room a little bit, so say Cds standpoint or viewpoint is like a heavily like from a teacher, standpoint, or educator standpoint, and as a parent for me, somebody who's not
Linda Kim: in in the education of field, like when we, when I first got the prompt, and I was first thinking I was like, okay, My first call is like, Why not? Why can't we use this? Obviously for teachers? There's a different reasons why they it's it. They may like a lot of hurdles go through. They have to think about how the how they're going to utilize it. How kids are going to react to it for all that. But for me, as somebody who works for a corporate, i'm like
Linda Kim: funding is the only issue here. What else can we do? Maybe security. So our our thought trained one little bit different, and it's it was interesting to see how our differences in terms of our we we saw different use of it, too. But to you know, what can we use is
Linda Kim: for this program is it was great to see I was very generally impressed with it.
Linda Kim: and I see I work for a semi conductor company, which is. we develop
Linda Kim: computer chips or microchips, or whatever. And you know we have a designated team that works, and that in terms of designing and it who in who communicate with the
Linda Kim: cost, our clients customers, and they go over specs over and over again, or
Linda Kim: just to kind of market it to to our customers. Or, you know, if customer has separate requests in terms of how to use it, or if they want to customize it, they it. What i'm saying is, they have doesn't it so I can see that team utilizing this, you know, Jig, you know very useful way.
Linda Kim: So that way, you know, custom customers can't see our product without actually having the product in their hand, and you know, and I saw how it goes like 360 to it, and it shows like a real size of it, too, so I thought that was like it's gonna be very useful for them as well in terms of product marketing.
Linda Kim: What would it take it? Kind of generalize it. You know. You know the users or the educators need to get trained
Linda Kim: how to use the program from top to bottom without that. How we're gonna do it right. And you know, maybe funding. That's for everybody. Either you're in school or corporate fun without funding. This is not probably not going to be able to happen.
Linda Kim: and in order to do that, you know, advocating the pros of it, how we can utilize this to educate people or students, or the clients.
Linda Kim: And what can we utilize to for best of our interested in both sides, and and hopefully get support from either school or even the hard government, meaning like State or Federal level as well, so that kind of funding might be very useful to do that.
Linda Kim: I think Cedia kind of touched on the what could be rational? Oh, you know.
Linda Kim: feeling safe in an environment, feel proof, environment, even if you kind of go, you know.
Linda Kim: walk through it. It's like a step by I saw, if I saw like 2 examples of it. So it's like a very step by step guide to us. So, you know, even if
Linda Kim: he knows. anyway. Sorry like ramping. Now
Linda Kim: let me keep going so, and say they brought a great point of you know, more accessibility for learners with disability they can experience like remote, You know.
Linda Kim: I think this kind of ties back to your festival videos, I think. Say, yeah.
Linda Kim: when you said this, so
okay.
Brian Beatty: wouldn't it be interesting if someone could join in one of these field trips like with their goggles
Brian Beatty: and or something, and they would be able to kind of have that live stream, that immersive video experience. You know that 3 60 video experience. But they could actually
Brian Beatty: look around. I don't know if that's available yet. You know. Kind of the live streaming 360 video piece.
Brian Beatty: I think it's even possible.
Brian Beatty: but we wouldn't necessarily need a headset to do that
Brian Beatty: you would need to have the 360 camera that someone's actually has with them. Maybe all they have above them on the as they're walking through there. But if you could get that to be something for a live experience and you could have some sort of other other audio and video connections there that could could really make it feel more like being there, even though the person wasn't there.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Linda Kim: I initially thought about Oculus.
Linda Kim: I mean. That's this is what this that's designed to do it right. But no, I everybody in soccer. So you have a point. It's it's it's designed to do that kind of live, streaming thing.
Linda Kim: I believe so. I mean it's for more of a gaming. It's giving you more more gaming. But I seen a couple of videos where people are like going in there wearing oculus and the but in in what they're seeing is they're like doing fishing.
Linda Kim: and then they just where they look around is is is that world? So
Brian Beatty: yeah, anyways, there's a lot of. I think there's a lot of potential, especially as computing power, thanks to semiconductor companies and other people
Brian Beatty: gets even more powerful, they can do more calculations, essentially more ones. And Zeros being added up that we can do more things with it in, you know some some of the promises of higher speed bandwidth, too.
Brian Beatty: or different kinds of panels. I I just heard some one of them not on the to talk about 10. G. Now I think it's just a marketing thing. But
Brian Beatty: what would that be? 10 G.
Brian Beatty: Is twice as good as 5. G.
Linda Kim: I guess.
Brian Beatty: All right. The rest of you. You just sitting there. Questions You have any comments. You can ask each other questions, too.
I can just wait for your turn to go.
Brian Beatty: All right, let's go to room 2. This would be Adam and Amanda.
Brian Beatty: Let me find it
Brian Beatty: Here it is.
Brian Beatty: Thank you. Group 3.
Amanda Deigan: So we kind of talked about
Amanda Deigan: stuff I talked about in my presentation.
Brian Beatty: but it's a little bit. We we took a little bit more of a in-depth
Amanda Deigan: approach. Once we were discussing to like the benefits of it being in the social emotional sector. But I can talk about like kind of what we wrote down, and then I could speak further to what we talked, because we didn't write it all down, because we kind of got into the
Amanda Deigan: conversation. but I can still go through it all. So the first things that we could do I talked about virtual field trips. Lots of things could be done in virtual field trips with all 3, like all of the situations like whether it's
Amanda Deigan: a virtual field trip to to front load students with information whether it's a virtual field to show them ways to regulate, or like places that can help regulate their emotions, whether it's a way to
Amanda Deigan: allow them to visually be able to understand the things they're reading about all kinds of different virtual field trips
Amanda Deigan: connected to taking a virtual field that could help them
Amanda Deigan: more understand, like what the characters they're reading about are going through. I talked about it in my presentation a bit, having a more immersive learning experience. For example, the World War. One trenches we read a scene in my class today where the main character is like lying face down in a trench.
Amanda Deigan: I'm hoping that nobody notices he's alive, and that if somebody like falls onto him like he's gonna do what it takes to make sure that he's the one who is like alive at the end. And so I think.
Amanda Deigan: being able to see like first hand like we're not really for a sample like, I guess, like second hand some hand that's not first hand of what the trenches were like. They'd be able to really visualize
Amanda Deigan: more of the book in their head, because I know Specifically I really struggled with imagination while reading. I was struggling so much with reading that there was no way I was gonna like, put a picture in my head, so anything that could very well give me a visual representation, and the more
Amanda Deigan: detailed it was, the better the more helped me. So I can imagine this would really help my students. It would take what it would take would be like lots of funding potentially grant applications and other forms of fundraising, because
Amanda Deigan: I would need to like, convince my administration to like, let it happen on top of funding. I would also need to make sure that somebody with purchasing experience is able to purchase everything we need, whether it's hardware and software training on boarding anything that has to do with
Amanda Deigan: the opera, their operation and like
Amanda Deigan: using like users software of it. And then the other thing is like it needs to make sure we need to make sure it's like compatible, which is why I feel like compatible with like the technology we're using kind of like to what Dalton was saying earlier about how a lot of his stuff wasn't working because of the Meta situations.
Amanda Deigan: So we would definitely. That's why I think it would take like a very experience like purchaser, somebody who's not only experienced in purchasing, but experience in our technology like really well, so that they could understand, like, what are the things that we can operate through our wi-fi, and what things we can't otherwise. It can just be that huge headache that's gonna go left money spent on things we're not using.
Amanda Deigan: If you scroll down a little bit to what the rationale would be.
Amanda Deigan: Specifically, it could help with regulating the reasoning, I don't know, like your guys's experience like with middle schoolers, but they've always been like prone to like larger behaviors, because they're going through like really uncomfortable time, and they feel very on under like not understood.
Amanda Deigan: So I don't know if you guys know. But like now, since they were like stuck inside with like
Amanda Deigan: people, they don't realistically like that much, or they don't like, because they feel like they don't like them, being
Amanda Deigan: quarantine for the period of time that they were quarantined, has like added to the uncomfortability of being a middle schooler in general, and being a pre teen and teenager. So the emotions that we're seeing are higher, and the apathy that we're seeing for behaviors and like consequences, is raised rising.
Amanda Deigan: so I think.
Amanda Deigan: using this as a source of being able to like, integrate it with our curriculums. I was talking to Adam about
Amanda Deigan: how I started Quarter 3, which was this last quarter that just ended with a self care unit, not even in, but like lesson at the beginning of every day we would talk about breathing
Amanda Deigan: exercises. We would talk about like brain dumping in a journal. We would talk about
Amanda Deigan: just like different things that can help them kind of reset before class. And I was telling Adam that something that would be very helpful for my students beginning of the year before all the behaviors, and before the apathy starts is like creating a space where students don't have to come in anxious
Amanda Deigan: to class, and they're able to maybe the beginning of our units before we even start the self-care unit like they get to come in and like spend time in their safe or peaceful place, and that's something that we create to, or that we learn through those VR Field trips like they get to learn like what those places are looking like
Amanda Deigan: That's individual to them. And then, later on in the year, since it's such an integral integral part of our classroom environment, instead of being like. Get out of my class like you're sorting my class like I could always be like, hey, go ahead and put your head down and like, Go to your peaceful place for a few minutes, and like when you're ready and like you feel like more calm, like you can come back to the lesson and
Amanda Deigan: another stuff like just being able to. They, I think the virtual reality will really start to be. And then, if they're struggling with even putting themselves into that virtual space like in their head, like they could always grab that
Amanda Deigan: the the materials in class that could help them visual like like, actually visualize it because they're looking at it.
Amanda Deigan: It. That was like the majority of what we talked about is just kind of like exposing them to things that could very well help them. Then we also talked like a little bit before we got into like that
Amanda Deigan: before we got into that
Amanda Deigan: tan. Not tangent, but like spot like really deeply. I also talked about how it could front load knowledge, and that's really important.
Amanda Deigan: and it's an engaging way to front loan knowledge and an engaging way to experience things that they wouldn't otherwise be able to experience.
Brian Beatty: Thank you, Adam. What do you have to add?
Adam Hill: Yeah, I think one thing that we
Adam Hill: realized was like the potential of this for social, emotional learning. On
Adam Hill: that we don't Often, I think there's more attention to it, both for adult learners. And for you, you know, K. 12 really learners of
Adam Hill: of just that students aren't really able to access content if they aren't able to
Adam Hill: like th. The their feelings of motivation and their attitudes towards learning is like essential in order for them to
Adam Hill: actually take on the learning itself, and so using virtual reality and extended realities for
Adam Hill: social, emotional learning, just as a he, a lot of promises For this I was even telling Amanda that I have a good friend who works for a mindfulness app that is starting to explore virtual realities, to
Adam Hill: help you facilitate more a more like in depth mindfulness experience. So I think that there is
Adam Hill: potentially something we're not talking about when it comes to engagement is like before you actually talk about like engagement
Adam Hill: of, you know, instructional content of like just like students. Engagement on like a social emotional level is really critical. And this could be a a helpful starting point, too.
Brian Beatty: That's true.
Brian Beatty: I was just typing in here in the chat. You know the neuroscience field, As you know, there's a they have a lot to say about the impact of emotional states and various things on the whole, biochemistry of the brain and and the impact on thinking ability.
Brian Beatty: Right stressful people think differently than unstressed people. The kind of learning that we want students to do in school is typically better done in not a stressed environment.
Brian Beatty: right? There are some things that are better learned in a stressful environment, especially when you're going to be experience things in a stressful environment. But that's a different thing. And so this idea of using a VR space to do this, which is actually pretty interesting. I don't know if anyone was doing that yet.
Brian Beatty: Yeah. And Amanda to your point about all the startup stuff. There are companies out there that for a price will kind of work with a school and help it launch this with technology with curriculum with VR spaces. All that stuff. But they're they're They're not going to be cheap. They would be something that probably would be funded by Grant funding like you mentioned before.
Brian Beatty: or maybe maybe, Governor, there's some will open up some funds, for
Brian Beatty: they are in public schools. Tell them, get elected. I don't know. Maybe.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Amanda Deigan: Thank you.
Brian Beatty: All right. Thank you. Guys more. Anything more. Any other questions from the rest of you.
Brian Beatty: Okay? Well, let's move up to group
Brian Beatty: the group one that's left.
Brian Beatty: There's some pages of notes here. Okay, Group One: what do you have?
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: Yeah, I really I really enjoyed doing the one that was about the bees and a pollination.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: I was wondering as a preschool teacher, how can I actually use this technology with kids? Because sometimes it's not that easy with little kids.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: but this one
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: I was like. If I had these when I was back in Mexico teaching, I would totally use it, and kids will be totally engaged and interested. And even Dalton mentioned how like, if there are kids that are afraid of these, they can have them right in front of them and zoom and out and like, learn about them without being scared.
Brian Beatty: That was my favorite part of
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: you. This
Brian Beatty: was this: using the jig space app? Yeah, okay.
Brian Beatty: cool. I I didn't know there was a B in there. But you know that'd be kind of fun. especially for kids. I think.
Raquel Plascencia Sanchez: Yeah.
Everett Estkowski: And I was mentioning how it's good to to use as a supplement
Everett Estkowski: to real world training. I was reading how
Everett Estkowski: airline pilots, you know, when they're being trained. They're the VR simulation doesn't train they it doesn't they don't do as well
Everett Estkowski: as they would have as excuse me using it as a supplement, and
Everett Estkowski: so
Everett Estkowski: With that I I checked out a chess, a ch, a chess simulation through the app, and
Everett Estkowski: it was showing me different moves. and I was thinking
Everett Estkowski: I would like to to have a chess set in front of me, so I could do it myself. You know. That kind of reminded me of that, like if I was to read it out of a book. I don't want to just read it out of the book. I want to also be doing it. So I think the doing it part of Beingr, is it you? Do you get to do it?
Everett Estkowski: 2? Still, though I can agree that it'd be nice to
Everett Estkowski: see things
Everett Estkowski: how they are outside of the VR. And
Everett Estkowski: I don't know. I I guess i'm a little bit skeptical about VR. In general, just because it's just a little skeptical, I guess
Brian Beatty: I I think it's one of the reasons why we want to focus on rationale. So if you could, if you had chess that's available, and people could sit and play chess, you know. and you could get the same experience doing that. Well, that seems to be the the better choice, right. But if that's not always available.
Brian Beatty: Well, clearly, this could get you a part way there. At least it may not be the same, but maybe it's better than nothing. That's one way to think about it. Another thing about another part of the rationale might be there is. Well, what if you wanted to overlay some instructional stuff
Brian Beatty: or a a another layer of data on top of that chessboard. It's really hard to do in like real real life, but in a, in a virtual space or an augmented reality, space you might be able to include that, so that my experience of playing chess. Maybe there is a physical board there, but maybe i'm also, seeing.
Brian Beatty: you know, maybe a a history of moves from these positions right or my own. Maybe my own history of moves, and how that worked out before, or whatever it might be.
Brian Beatty: so that could be part of the rationale. For why? This is actually augmenting with something that's positive and meaningful as opposed to just just cool technology.
Everett Estkowski: Yeah, I could see that with having a R. A recording of your past moves and to see progress over time and out. Those
Everett Estkowski: moves can be, you know.
Everett Estkowski: done differently. So
Everett Estkowski: I think it's like a tutor, you know.
Brian Beatty: Okay?
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Oh, can I build that tutoring point? That's the the arrows a little help a little bit with this right? So the arrows kind of guide you through the experience.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): but I think it's still a little bit. I mean I think it's really neat. It's really cool. You can show a lot of things. So I think, paired with an instructor in the room.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Virtually, I think these AR experiences can be really powerful. I I find myself
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): studying motors because that's one of the things I teach with my students, and it's a very tricky one to teach. But I could pull up a motor and like.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): take my phone and put it inside the motor to show the coils of wire and things like that. So I like the idea of like sort of going inside things, or like the you know, having a heart. I saw this was mentioned in one of the videos for the reading, like where you
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you take the heart, you make it super huge. And then you go inside to see, like the different chambers in the heart of that kind of thing, and to say that where below it goes. I think that's that's a really.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you know. I think there's some real learning that happening there, especially seeing it for the first time. But I think it's Still.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): there's still an opportunity there to like have users do something or manipulate something besides, just the arrows or clicking and zooming in, and I I just haven't come across some. I guess Jigspace allows you to maybe make the the experience customize it.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): but I would like something that was a little bit more ready or made
Brian Beatty: ready made. So you don't have to make it. Yeah, it was something read in me that's a perfect for for your class, and exactly how you want to. That's a challenge. Yeah, this came up in my adaptive learning paper, too. It's like, Well, you know, Doolingo takes is it's a huge amount of effort to make something like doing it like I can't make dueling it for my class.
Brian Beatty: You know we we saw what the the script app last week. Adam does that you talked about that right?
Brian Beatty: Yeah. So what if you had a technology where you could, you could put in your own script and have an audio red
Brian Beatty: while while they're going through here. So you could basically do that. And it's so easy for you to edit. You know. All you'd have to do is do text editing, and you could make you could change it because the AI knows your voice.
Brian Beatty: This is this is Dalton teacher voice working with us with his students, and so mixing some of these tools together, I think, is the eventually we're going to end up at some point
Brian Beatty: that might make it more, you know, customize easily customizable, which means a teacher could do it just like they would edit a lesson plan.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, I haven't done anything make trying to make one of these Jake Space projects. But I do like the fact that you could step through it. But as I was stepping through it, I was thinking, Well, I know a little bit about what i'm looking at here, so I understand why they're showing this. But if I didn't know anything about it, this is oh, this is another piece of this. I think I was looking at the jet engine.
Brian Beatty: I need more information about that. So how can I get a little bit more information at that point when i'm actually looking at exploring with it at my desktop?
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Yeah, you know, for instance, like the solar panel one, you know, it would be really nice if you could
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): select things like a cloudy day, right? And see the dropping voltage like in a graph or something like that, where you have a little bit of active input
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and it's seen seeing the change, because
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): I think they're doing that in some some VR: and AR: things right like in science like you, you do a reaction. And then you could measure the temperature.
Brian Beatty: Yeah. Yeah. Simulated environment, simulated lab environments. Yeah, there's a couple of there are some companies that make these simulated lab environments. There's also there's a free website.
Brian Beatty: I don't know if you've ever heard of this one. It's called
Brian Beatty: it's called Phoenix.
Brian Beatty: Let me put it in the chat.
Brian Beatty: And it's basically physics, chemistry, other kinds of science, even math simulations or science. Biology.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, there you go. I mean very simple, very limited, right, very simple. But graphics and things like that Not not that rich at all. But the fact that what you can do with that stuff is really amazing.
Brian Beatty: and it's it's at the point where Yes, you someone else builds it.
Brian Beatty: and you can use it for free.
Brian Beatty: You don't You do a solar energy project with your students. I think you talked about that in one prod in one.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, that'd be kind of it would be kind of nice to have.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): You know things that would wrap up rep kind of wrap all together that allow that kind of flexibility. For what? If right, the next level is something like you. Make the house right. You put it somewhere globally, that matches latitude and longitude. And then you can see the angle of the sun, that kind of thing, and then optimize the solar angle of the solar panel on the roof.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Then that's like a full onics learning experience. There's objectives where there's goals. There's optimization
Brian Beatty: that's right. And then you could you could follow. One of the little photons coming from the sun through the atmosphere.
Brian Beatty: hit that panel and see what actually happens. How is that generating that electricity. And where does it go to power? I don't know your computer or something to charge your phone or whatever it might be.
Brian Beatty: Okay, yeah. So you can do. You can do a lot you can do. I mean, there's a lot of potential here, but you know it takes development right. It takes the time and energy, and none of it. None of it's really free. Someone's paying a cost to develop that.
Brian Beatty: And the question is, who bears the cost.
Brian Beatty: You know in in a lot of school situations. We kind of are looking for other people to bear the cost, although we often will assume some of the cost and and learning how to use the technology or modifying it to fit our our specific needs and etc. But our students pay a cost to
Brian Beatty: right. They they pay a cost, but learning how to use the technology. Sometimes they have to invest in the technology. Sometimes they have to invent, they they're giving away their data in some way, whatever it might be. And so you know, none of this is really free. So it's important to be able to understand where the Co. What are the cost? Factors, and who's burying them? And you know what what matters
Brian Beatty: It might be the fact that you know. So what if you know they're tracking our data on our using this? There's nothing to happen, nothing's happening, that is. you know. Possibly you know, sensitive or
Brian Beatty: you know damaging or puts our data. You know our our financial data at risk, or whatever it might be. something to go through.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: all right. Well, the discussion for this week is, I think, the last thing. Let's just talk about that for a minute.
Brian Beatty: Let me let me pull this up again. Let's see
it's.
Brian Beatty: Oh, yeah. post it up here that I'm bringing them
Brian Beatty: what this is. Basically this discussion is going to extend what we were just talking about. So think about it a little bit more in your particular context. In each one of you can make sure you're adding your contact so you can talk about the same thing you were just talking about here. If you want to, you can add you can do a completely different direction. But think about
Brian Beatty: using extended reality right? These Xr technologies to
Brian Beatty: increase engagement and learning process, maybe a little more specific, maybe specific examples, technologies. If you've already posted something into the into the Google document. And you like that.
Brian Beatty: You want to run with that. You can put your forum post in here as well. That will give everybody else an opportunity to give you feedback other than rather than just me or a couple of your colleagues.
Brian Beatty: Think about that. Think about the engagement challenges. So right now we're thinking about this in terms of not of not as content creation.
Brian Beatty: but as an engagement experience engaging students in the learning process, and it may be indirectly contributing to the learning process
Brian Beatty: kind of the social emotional. It has an impact on learning, but it's not not directed specifically at content. Usually it's setting up the conditions under which learning can happen with them, content, etc. So that would be more. I would call it a little bit more indirect. But you can also look at direct engagement or content, which is what some of the other examples we're showing. How do I pull this apart? Put it back together again.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: all right.
Adam Hill: Dr. B. I I had one question. This maybe, is like for next class, but I was also
Adam Hill: at some point. We like to find what we mean by engagement in the topic of this
Adam Hill: unit, like I feel like engagement can mean so many things as small as like what a man they are talking about like access accessing content from like a social emotional level, to actually like in, get like keeping students in their seats, to
Adam Hill: getting deep. And I I like, as we think about what we want to present on. It would be helpful to think about like
Adam Hill: what is an engagement technology. And what is it, and how these all all overlap as well?
Brian Beatty: It's Messy. So I would say that engagement
Brian Beatty: is when we talk about engagement, I want to think about engaging students in their learning process.
Brian Beatty: and so that, can you, can you? That's pretty broad. It could be like you could be the the the the emotional preparation to learn right? Because if I if i'm not in a right emotional state or a psychological state, I mean, i'm not going to engage.
Brian Beatty: you know, if i'm completely distracted about something else, and i'm just not tuning in at all. I am not going to be in case so engagement can be attention, you know, getting the tension could be preparing for that. It could be this. It could be that it could be focused on the learning process that they're following through. So adaptive. Learning systems.
Brian Beatty: you know, can be. You can consider those engagement tools as well. Why? Because they are. They are using what we know about the you know, from learning sciences, the patterns of engaging with content, content
Brian Beatty: right to engage students in the learning process. So the adaptive learning systems at one level are developing or providing content. That's a customized content set that's, you know. Does that kind of fits in our last little bin of the framework, but they're also designed to to keep the student engaged in that process
Brian Beatty: to keep their attention, to get their attention to give them review, you know, to give them feedback to, you know. Kind of give them positive feedback, as well as perhaps some negative feedback when they need it. Those kinds of things. So
Brian Beatty: the learning process.
Adam Hill: Okay.
Brian Beatty: Okay, very broad.
Brian Beatty: great. And if you're if you want a better answer.
Brian Beatty: I don't know. Go to open aid.com, and ask the question. It really it'd be interesting to hear what what what the AI tool has to say about
Brian Beatty: what is engagement in learning.
Brian Beatty: I have no idea what they would say.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: all right. Well, thanks very much for your engagement in tonight's class, and I look forward to seeing you online in the discussion and and hopefully back live
Brian Beatty: Not next week. Next week is spring break. Enjoy your time somewhere, maybe just at work. But don't come here. No one will be here, and then i'll see you in 2 weeks, and I will talk like I said. I will reach out to our my library, and who does the VR. And find out what's available for us? I mean, if if we, if maybe you know Wednesday evening
Brian Beatty: is the best time, and they're available. Maybe that would work, since we kind of have time reserved at some point for this. But if not, maybe i'll put a, you know, like a call tricks out there to see what what would be the best time for people.
Brian Beatty: All right. Have fun!
Brian Beatty: Take care. bye, bye.